ivana shin um what
why were you inching my were you at the
bike fest or were you just have to just
happen to be there at the same time like
what what drew you there good question I
have answered it before but I'm happy to
answer it again so I've been in and
attaching my for more than ten years
unlike everyone else in this equation I
speak the language I speak Thai with a
heavy lotion accent I lived in Thailand
Laos Cambodia for years I was a real
scholar a real specialist in that field
I realized my CV is boring but you can
read you know I sent you a copy of my
resume you can look that over
I studied those languages of state as
histories I studied that political
politics of that region both ancient and
modern I did a ton of research at the
humanitarian work NGO work whatever you
want to say I have a meaningful
connection to the history politics and
languages of that region including the
city of Chiang Mai itself and that is
deeply threatening those people because
they don't they're shallow hippie
tourists doing self-indulgent nonsense
so that is part of the tension of the
situation I already knew the city of
Chiang Mai I'd been there before why I
arrived when I didn't left I did which
had nothing to do with the festival was
that I had a job in China and could Ming
China where I am right now and I was
signed up to start language classes that
I'm taking right now and I needed to do
paperwork and I needed to go to a
hospital some of the paperwork is done
at a hospital get my Chinese visa and
order etc so there were really
practically for me there were about two
ways I could do that one would be going
by a Chiang Mai the other would be going
by a nan Chi and BN Chen I can get into
details that are kind of meaningless but
the reality was I had a list of
practical reasons to be in Chiang Mai
for just a couple of days Chiang Mai has
a Chinese Embassy as a good Hospital
that I know where they both speak
English and speak Thai I could speak in
uptight I get by at that Hospital where
I could get all that stuff done and I
could then get a direct flight from
Chiang Mai to Kunming which is exactly
what I did above and beyond that I had
fans in Chiang Mai durianrider isn't the
only one with fans in Chiang Mai there
were people in shame I wanted to meet me
and so I went there that was another
reason to be in Chiang Mai rather than
taking
slightly different route going from
Bangkok to could Ming and I did meet up
with them I never attended a single rato
four events I never gatecrashed I never
showed up at anything uninvited I
created my own events where I met people
who already knew me on the internet and
wanted to meet with me it was it I never
once showed up at any of durianrider of
freelee's events I never instigated
anything in any way in that sense but
simply the fact that I exist is a deep
challenge to their authority I've
mentioned some of the reasons for that
already I mean you know if you dig
around the other reasons have to do with
the pseudoscience of their diet I'm one
of the only people who came out strongly
and said on the issue of Crohn's disease
Crohn's disease is an incurable disease
translation it is a disease for which
there is no known cure
and what durianrider has said about
Crohn's disease is false and here he was
deeply threatened by that and he made a
video directly responding to me and
denouncing me on that several months ago
I'm sorry I forget how many months ago
that is you can you can get the date if
you need it by searching his YouTube
channel your search for Crohn's disease
and you'll see the video he's way enough
where he again claims he curated so on
that kind of issue like you know I also
clarified they claim that garlic
contains a neurotoxin that is false I
don't know if you've ever eaten garlic
garlic does not contain a neurotoxin so
there were various hard issues of
science as well as politics on which
I've really been a very different voice
within the vegan movement as I could say
I mean you know real people do real
things so yeah the fact that I exist at
all is in some way a threat to him and
they responded accordingly but no I
actually I actually wasn't there to
instigate the kind of ludicrous conflict
that durian writer himself did instigate
I know you mentioned that it's a kind of
a small community in chiang mai from
your experience can you sort of describe
who you you know of living there like
what what that whole situation is as you
know it in terms of vegans vegan expats
living in chiang mai ok ok yeah look
there are there are three types of
people there ok there are people who are
so young that this really
is tragic and this really is a cult-like
movement that's going to devastate them
for the rest of their lives okay and you
can be as polite about that as you want
to be but I talked to a young woman who
dropped out of high school and moved to
Chiang Mai to join this social circle
shall we say now let's let's not use the
word cult okay you know you tell me
anyone who dropped out of high school
and doesn't and your ignorance of what
this isn't going to impact the rest of
your life I know I know two examples I
think both young females who dropped out
of high school I think so maybe I'm
misremembering one one for sure who I
interviewed on my own channel so you can
see that injury on my channel and we
talked about and she's very
philosophical better than when I
interviewed my channel other people
dropped at a college other people just
decided not to go to college so there's
some people at a young age where that's
what impacts them and you tell me what
future they really have I hope they wake
up some of them do some of them turn
their lives around and get a new
perspective and take on a new direction
others don't
okay then there are middle-aged people
who earned it you know like they had a
normal job up to a point and for some
reason they fell into this ideology and
sacrificed everything join the social
circle now there's an example there's a
channel called Joe vegan so just Jo a
space vegan and he and his wife talk
honestly about the fact they're in our
disillusion they're not true believers
they use the word cult they say they're
no longer cult members but they just
fell in love with this idea they quit
their jobs they sold all their furniture
they bought bicycles and they ran away
to Chiangmai I think there's one year
ago then was last year's festival they
were true believers in this and then
they had a kind of disillusionment
experience where they woke up and they
themselves say like you know they make
videos talking about this what were we
thinking like but what was our plan for
the future but those are mature adults I
believe they're over 30 years old I'm
guessing their age these completely feel
so even then it's kind of sad but the
consequences are less serious
and then finally there are people who
are more of a retirement age who are
making this choice and I guess for them
the consequences are the least serious
because you know I guess you know I
guess for them going on permanent
vacation maybe has no such
percussions however I got to tell you
something um I I thought my own
grandmother was a bad person because
when she retired she just decided to
play tennis and basically not to give a
damn about the real world or its
problems I think that we all should do
our part to make the world a better
place and I think we should work damn
hard to figure out what our part is
that's one of the reasons why I'm vegan
and even if you're not vegan I think you
should feel positive motivated what make
the world a better place and what is so
sick about the ego trip behind this
permanent vacation cult is that they
pretend they're saving the world they
pretend they're making the world a
better place when really they're living
a life of total self-indulgence and
that's the incongruous contradiction at
the heart of this for all three age
groups yeah so I want to actually take a
step back for a second you said in your
interview with the light winds that
suing durianrider is not about your ego
it's about veganism and what you were
what you just said reminded me of that
um can you explain that a little bit
yeah you got all day
[Laughter]
Ivana Seon